README.md, before:

# DevShop.Platform Collection for Ansible

[![CI](https://github.com/opendevshop/devshop.platform/actions/workflows/ansible-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/opendevshop/devshop.platform/actions/workflows/ansible-test.yml)

The DevShop.Platform Ansible collection extends Ansible's reach to track applications and services, in addition to hosts and roles.

## Components

1. App Hosts. "Virtual" Ansible host entries that reference a running instance of an application. (a.k.a. an "app environment".).
2. Service Groups. A "service" is an abstract list of roles that provides something to App Hosts. Any host assigned to a Service Group becomes a "Server Host".
3. Server Hosts. Ansible host entries that provide "services" to applications. Once assigned, the list of `devshop_server_roles` is aggregated from the Service Group variable `devshop_service_roles_NAME`.
4. App Roles. Meta roles to install applications of pre-defined types, such as Drupal or node.

## Included content





<!-- Galaxy will eventually list the module docs within the UI, but until that is ready, you may need to either describe your plugins etc here, or point to an external docsite to cover that information. -->

## Using this collection

<!--Include some quick examples that cover the most common use cases for your collection content. It can include the following examples of installation and upgrade (change NAMESPACE.COLLECTION_NAME correspondingly):-->


## Code of Conduct

We follow the [Ansible Code of Conduct](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/code_of_conduct.html) in all our interactions within this project.

If you encounter abusive behavior, please refer to the [policy violations](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/code_of_conduct.html#policy-violations) section of the Code for information on how to raise a complaint.

## Contributing to this collection

<!--Describe how the community can contribute to your collection. At a minimum, fill up and include the CONTRIBUTING.md file containing how and where users can create issues to report problems or request features for this collection. List contribution requirements, including preferred workflows and necessary testing, so you can benefit from community PRs. If you are following general Ansible contributor guidelines, you can link to - [Ansible Community Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/index.html). List the current maintainers (contributors with write or higher access to the repository). The following can be included:-->

The content of this collection is made by people like you, a community of individuals collaborating on making the world better through developing automation software.

We are actively accepting new contributors.

Any kind of contribution is very welcome.

You don't know how to start? Refer to our [contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)!

We use the following guidelines:

* [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [REVIEW_CHECKLIST.md](REVIEW_CHECKLIST.md)
* [Ansible Community Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/index.html)
* [Ansible Development Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/dev_guide/index.html)
* [Ansible Collection Development Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/dev_guide/developing_collections.html#contributing-to-collections)

## Collection maintenance

The current maintainers are listed in the [MAINTAINERS](MAINTAINERS) file. If you have questions or need help, feel free to mention them in the proposals.

To learn how to maintain / become a maintainer of this collection, refer to the [Maintainer guidelines](MAINTAINING.md).

## Governance

<!--Describe how the collection is governed. Here can be the following text:-->

The process of decision making in this collection is based on discussing and finding consensus among participants.

Every voice is important. If you have something on your mind, create an issue or dedicated discussion and let's discuss it!

### Installing the Collection from Ansible Galaxy

Before using this collection, you need to install it with the Ansible Galaxy command-line tool:
```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install NAMESPACE.COLLECTION_NAME
```

You can also include it in a `requirements.yml` file and install it with `ansible-galaxy collection install -r requirements.yml`, using the format:
```yaml
---
collections:
  - name: devshop.platform
```

Note that if you install the collection from Ansible Galaxy, it will not be upgraded automatically when you upgrade the `ansible` package. To upgrade the collection to the latest available version, run the following command:
```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install NAMESPACE.COLLECTION_NAME --upgrade
```

You can also install a specific version of the collection, for example, if you need to downgrade when something is broken in the latest version (please report an issue in this repository). Use the following syntax to install version `0.1.0`:

```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install devshop.platform:==0.1.0
```

See [Ansible Using collections](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/user_guide/collections_using.html) for more details.

## Release notes

See the [changelog](https://github.com/opendevshop/devshop.platform/tree/main/CHANGELOG.rst).

## Roadmap

<!-- Optional. Include the roadmap for this collection, and the proposed release/versioning strategy so users can anticipate the upgrade/update cycle. -->

## More information

<!-- List out where the user can find additional information, such as working group meeting times, slack/IRC channels, or documentation for the product this collection automates. At a minimum, link to: -->

- [Ansible Collection overview](https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview)
- [Ansible User guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/user_guide/index.html)
- [Ansible Developer guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/dev_guide/index.html)
- [Ansible Collections Checklist](https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/master/collection_requirements.rst)
- [Ansible Community code of conduct](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/code_of_conduct.html)
- [The Bullhorn (the Ansible Contributor newsletter)](https://us19.campaign-archive.com/home/?u=56d874e027110e35dea0e03c1&id=d6635f5420)
- [Changes impacting Contributors](https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/issues/45)

## Licensing

<!-- Include the appropriate license information here and a pointer to the full licensing details. If the collection contains modules migrated from the ansible/ansible repo, you must use the same license that existed in the ansible/ansible repo. See the GNU license example below. -->

GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.

See [LICENSE](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt) to see the full text.

Commit message:

The devshop.platform Ansible Collection (#1)
This is the first pull request for a new Ansible-based DevShop platform.

This PR delivers working CI on GitHub.com for cross platform tests and example platforms: https://github.com/opendevshop/devshop.platform/pull/1/checks

To see the full list of commits: https://github.com/opendevshop/devshop.platform/pull/1

README.md, after:

# DevShop.Platform Collection for Ansible

[![CI](https://github.com/opendevshop/devshop.platform/actions/workflows/ansible-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/opendevshop/devshop.platform/actions/workflows/ansible-test.yml)

The DevShop.Platform Ansible collection extends Ansible's reach to track applications and services, in addition to hosts and roles.

## Components

1. App Hosts. 
   - Ansible Hosts that refer to a single website, containing variables needed to deploy the site to one or many servers. 
   - Multiple App Hosts can be assigned to a single Server Host, similar to Apache Vhosts. 
   - App hosts store the Ansible facts/vars that are needed to install the site, such as Git repository, git reference, and web and database servers. 
   - App Hosts can run App Roles, such as `geerlingguy.drupal` to finish set up of individual apps.
2. Server Hosts. 
   - Ansible Hosts that refer to real servers. 
   - Server Hosts are assigned roles based on what "Service Groups" they are in. 
   - Server Host list variables (such as `apache_vhosts` and `mysql_databases`) are aggregated from all App Hosts that are using each service to allow multiple App Hosts per Server.
3. Service Groups. 
  - A Service Group is an Ansible Host Group that provides a list of roles that get assigned to all members of the group. The groups are used to organize your Server Hosts by purpose, such as Web or DB.
  - See [./services/http.yml](./services/http.yml) for an example.
4. App Groups.
  - An App Group contains default variables for App Hosts that are built from pre-defined apps such as Drupal. 
  - Each App Group can set different "build" or "install" commands, such as `composer install` vs. `npm build` or `drush site-install` vs `app install`
  - See [./services/drupal.yml](./services/drupal.yml) for an example.

## Using this collection

See [examples folder](./examples) for samples implementations. 

## Code of Conduct

We follow the [Ansible Code of Conduct](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/code_of_conduct.html) in all our interactions within this project.

If you encounter abusive behavior, please refer to the [policy violations](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/code_of_conduct.html#policy-violations) section of the Code for information on how to raise a complaint.

## Contributing to this collection

<!--Describe how the community can contribute to your collection. At a minimum, fill up and include the CONTRIBUTING.md file containing how and where users can create issues to report problems or request features for this collection. List contribution requirements, including preferred workflows and necessary testing, so you can benefit from community PRs. If you are following general Ansible contributor guidelines, you can link to - [Ansible Community Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/index.html). List the current maintainers (contributors with write or higher access to the repository). The following can be included:-->

The content of this collection is made by people like you, a community of individuals collaborating on making the world better through developing automation software.

We are actively accepting new contributors.

Any kind of contribution is very welcome.

You don't know how to start? Refer to our [contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)!

We use the following guidelines:

* [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [REVIEW_CHECKLIST.md](REVIEW_CHECKLIST.md)
* [Ansible Community Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/index.html)
* [Ansible Development Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/dev_guide/index.html)
* [Ansible Collection Development Guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/dev_guide/developing_collections.html#contributing-to-collections)

## Collection maintenance

The current maintainers are listed in the [MAINTAINERS](MAINTAINERS) file. If you have questions or need help, feel free to mention them in the proposals.

To learn how to maintain / become a maintainer of this collection, refer to the [Maintainer guidelines](MAINTAINING.md).

## Governance

<!--Describe how the collection is governed. Here can be the following text:-->

The process of decision making in this collection is based on discussing and finding consensus among participants.

Every voice is important. If you have something on your mind, create an issue or dedicated discussion and let's discuss it!

### Installing the Collection from Ansible Galaxy

Before using this collection, you need to install it with the Ansible Galaxy command-line tool:
```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install NAMESPACE.COLLECTION_NAME
```

You can also include it in a `requirements.yml` file and install it with `ansible-galaxy collection install -r requirements.yml`, using the format:
```yaml
---
collections:
  - name: devshop.platform
```

Note that if you install the collection from Ansible Galaxy, it will not be upgraded automatically when you upgrade the `ansible` package. To upgrade the collection to the latest available version, run the following command:
```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install NAMESPACE.COLLECTION_NAME --upgrade
```

You can also install a specific version of the collection, for example, if you need to downgrade when something is broken in the latest version (please report an issue in this repository). Use the following syntax to install version `0.1.0`:

```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install devshop.platform:==0.1.0
```

See [Ansible Using collections](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/user_guide/collections_using.html) for more details.

## Release notes

See the [changelog](https://github.com/opendevshop/devshop.platform/tree/main/CHANGELOG.rst).

## Roadmap

<!-- Optional. Include the roadmap for this collection, and the proposed release/versioning strategy so users can anticipate the upgrade/update cycle. -->

## More information

<!-- List out where the user can find additional information, such as working group meeting times, slack/IRC channels, or documentation for the product this collection automates. At a minimum, link to: -->

- [Ansible Collection overview](https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview)
- [Ansible User guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/user_guide/index.html)
- [Ansible Developer guide](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/dev_guide/index.html)
- [Ansible Collections Checklist](https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/master/collection_requirements.rst)
- [Ansible Community code of conduct](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/code_of_conduct.html)
- [The Bullhorn (the Ansible Contributor newsletter)](https://us19.campaign-archive.com/home/?u=56d874e027110e35dea0e03c1&id=d6635f5420)
- [Changes impacting Contributors](https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/issues/45)

## Licensing

<!-- Include the appropriate license information here and a pointer to the full licensing details. If the collection contains modules migrated from the ansible/ansible repo, you must use the same license that existed in the ansible/ansible repo. See the GNU license example below. -->

GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.

See [LICENSE](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt) to see the full text.
